# VitaD3-NLO-PHY-SUST

This repository contains Python codes related to the Z-scan profiling of liquid materials. The codes are developed in the Google Colaboratory environment, which is why the file input and output destinations are represented in a specific manner. You need to change that to your preferred way. This code is developed under a project ongoing at the **_Nonlinear Optics Research Laboratory, Department of Physics, SUST, Sylhet-3114._**

## Files in this Repository

### UV spectrum.ipynb

This Jupyter notebook is used for visualizing the UV-Vis absorption spectrum from a .csv or .txt file generated by UV-Vis Spectrometers. It provides the following features:

- Visualize the UV-Vis absorption spectrum.
- Show the absorbance at a particular wavelength on an inset graph inside the main graph.
- Calculate the linear absorption coefficient ($\alpha$) as well as the effective length ($L_{eff}$).

### Z_scan_Final.ipynb

This Jupyter notebook reads data from a folder where .csv format files will be used for visualizing closed aperture Z-scan profiles and calculating and measuring further parameters such as nonlinear phase shift. The code mainly consists of two portions:

1. **Data Reading and Initial Calculation:** This portion is used for reading the main .csv files from the folder and plotting the closed aperture profiles for each of the files in the folder. For each file, the computed values will then be saved on a newly created .csv file for each of the folders. This portion will calculate different files containing data for different powers.

2. **Further Calculation and Plotting:** This portion will take the newly created data frame (.csv file) from the first portion as its input, and then will further perform various calculations and plotting. The calculations will be for the whole folder containing the data of a sample.

## Data for these programs.

The data we have used for this project in not publicly available.

## License

This project is GNU GPL v2 licensed.
